---
cover: /images/courses/roosevelt-university.png
code: CHEM 100
title: Foundations of Chemistry
instructor: Murat Kahveci
instructorurl: /murat
institution: Roosevelt University
insturl: "https://www.roosevelt.edu/"
clevel: Undergraduate
semester: Fall 2018
pdf:
web: "https://blackboard.roosevelt.edu/"
---
{% include courseh.html %}

## Course Description

This course covers some fundamentals of chemistry: properties of matter, units and unit conversations, chemical bonding, stoichiometry, thermochemistry. The focus will be on concepts, skills, and abilities needed for success in subsequent chemistry courses. This course is appropriate for non-scientists and science majors with little or no chemistry background, or who need additionally assistance with math concepts.

## General course objectives

1. Understand and be able to explain the general principles, laws, and theories of chemistry that are discussed and presented throughout the semester
2. Use critical thinking and logic in the solution of problems.
3. Apply learned chemistry skills to new situations.
4. Demonstrate an understanding of chemistry through technological advancement.
5. Develop independent and cooperative learning skills.
6. Recognize and acquire attitudes that are characteristic of the successful worker regardless of the major
field of study.
7. Develop an awareness of the value of chemistry in our daily living.

## Course specific learning outcomes

Successful completion of the course will provide the student with knowledge of the fundamental concepts of chemistry as a preparation for enrollment in General Chemistry I and II.

1. Be familiar with the metric units of measure used in the natural sciences.
2. Identify forms of energy and know units in which energy is measured.
3. Understand properties of matter and the classes which occur: mixtures, pure chemical substances,
compounds, elements.
4. Know chemical symbols for about 50 important elements.
5. Understand the nature of changes which occur in matter and their classification as chemical or physical.
6. Know about the development of atomic theory and understand the arrangement of protons, neutrons,
and electrons in atoms, and the relative size and mass of atoms.
7. Understand how the arrangement of electrons controls the chemical properties of atoms.
8. Understand the arrangement of Periodic Table of Elements and be able to predict the properties of
elements based on their location in the table.
9. Understand the principles of chemical bonding (covalent and ionic) and be able to show electron
arrangements in ionic and molecular compounds.
10. Write correct formulas for named compounds.
11. Understand how chemical equations are used to describe changes, and be able to write balanced
chemical equations.
12. Understand the concept of a mole and be able to apply it to calculate quantities of substances involved in chemical changes.
