---
cover: /images/courses/depaul-university.png
code: CHE 134
title: General Chemistry III
instructor: Murat Kahveci
instructorurl: /murat.html
institution: DePaul University
insturl: "https://www.depaul.edu/"
clevel: Undergraduate
semester: Autumn 2020
web: "https://d2l.depaul.edu/"
last_updated: Sep 7, 2020
---
{% include courseh.html %}

## Course Description

Chemistry 134 is the third course in the three-quarter general chemistry sequence. It is designed to give students a fundamental understanding of chemistry and may be used by non-science majors to fulfill a Scientific Inquiry learning domain requirement in the Liberal Studies Program. The topics covered in Chemistry 134 include: 
- acid-base equilibria and applications thereof; 
- solubility equilibria; thermodynamics; 
- electrochemistry; radioactivity; and 
- coordination chemistry.  
	 
In addition to you gaining an understanding of the topics listed, it is a major goal of this course to develop your problem-solving and critical-thinking skills. You will be given the opportunity to work through problems starting from first principles and challenged to fully understand the meaning of your results. Accomplishing these objectives will require a significant time commitment. _You should spend approximately twelve hours per week outside of watching lecture videos working on the material for this course._ The bulk of this time should be spent working on problems, including: completing on-line Mastering Chemistry homework assignments, reviewing problems presented in online lectures, and working extra problems suggested from your textbook. Working on problems does not mean that you should read a problem and then immediately look at the solution. This approach will not help you succeed on exams. You should look at the solution to a problem only after you have spent a significant amount of time (15 – 20 minutes) attempting to complete the problem on your own. 

## Textbook and Materials

### Required

1. Textbook and Modified Mastering Chemistry (ISBN 9780134565613)
    -  Tro, N. J. _Chemistry: Structure and Properties_, 2<sup>nd</sup> Ed. Pearson Education, Inc. Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2018. This text is available from the bookstore in hardbound, loose-leaf, and e-text formats.
    - The Modified Mastering Chemistry subscriptions should be done within the course website. Please follow these steps in order to find the correct course at the Modified Mastering Chemistry webpage:
        * Sign in to Brightspace and enter your Brightspace course at [https://d2l.depaul.edu/d2l/home/773469](https://d2l.depaul.edu/d2l/home/773469).
        * Select the widget, named _Pearson's MyLab and Mastering_, on the Brightspace course’s home page and follow on screen instruction to register.

2. Non-graphing calculator for use on exams. Suggested models include:
    - TI-30X family of calculators (available at the bookstore)
    - CASIO fx-260solar or CASIO fx-250HC

### Recommended

1. Tro, N. J.; Shaginaw, K. T.; Kramer, M. B., Solutions Manual for Chemistry:Structure and Properties, Pearson Education, Inc., Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2017. ISBN 9780134460673

## Tentative Schedule

{% include image.html 
   file="/images/courses/ukc-0.png"
   title="Figure 1"
   caption="Tentative Outline – CHE 134-101 - Autumn 2020. I reserve the right to make changes to this schedule, as necessary." %}