---
cover: /images/courses/luc.png
code: CHEM 171
title: General Chemistry for Engineering
instructor: Murat Kahveci
instructorurl: /murat
institution: Loyola University Chicago
insturl: "https://www.luc.edu/"
clevel: Undergraduate
semester: Fall 2021
pdf:
web: "https://sakai.luc.edu/"
published: true
---
{% include courseh.html %}

## Course Description

To acquaint students with fundamental concepts of chemistry and their application in engineering science.

## Textbook and Materials

### Textbook

1. “Chemistry for Engineering Students”, 4th edit. by Larry Brown and Tom Holme (Cengage Learning, Inc., 2019) ISBN 978-1-337-39890-9 is required. 
2. The Student Solutions Manual with Study Guide, ISBN 978-1-337-39906-7 is recommended.

### Lecture Notes

Lecture notes/handouts for each chapter will be made available electronically. Students are expected to “fill in the blanks” (take notes) with calculations, chemical equations, and structures in the handouts as the lectures proceed. When set of notes is completed for a Chapter, a completed version will be posted in Sakai.

### Other Materials

You will need an inexpensive calculator having logarithmic (base 10 and base e), expo- nential, and trigonometric functions. Be sure you are familiar with your calculator and that it is in user-ready condition for quizzes and exams. Calculators cannot be shared during exams and the covers must be removed while taking the exam. You are not allowed to have a cell phone during the exam.

### Zoom Guidelines and Expectations

This class will use Zoom for office hours. Students should follow general guidelines and meet participation expectations for Zoom meetings:

* Use your given or preferred name as your display name.
* Don’t use distracting or inappropriate profile photos or virtual backgrounds.
* Minimize distractions, such as televisions and cell phones, when possible.
* Try to put your device at eye level on a solid surface. Holding your device or placing it in your lap can
add movement to your video, which can be distracting.
* Don’t engage in other activities during sessions (driving, cooking, cleaning, etc.)
* Mute your microphone when you’re not speaking to minimize background noise.
* Don’t share meeting links, passwords, screenshots, recordings, or other meeting information. with
people outside the class.
* If connectivity issues impact your audio/video quality, try turning off your camera.
* Be on time or notify your instructor if you will be late or unable to attend.
* If you think you might have trouble actively participating in meetings, let your instructor know in
advance, if possible.
* Contact Loyola’s Technology Support Center at (773) 508-4487 or via email at ITS Service Desk
[ITSServiceDesk@luc.edu](mailto:ITSServiceDesk@luc.edu), if you need assistance during a video call.

## Tentative Schedule 

{% include image.html 
   file="/images/courses/hsm-1.png"
   title="Figure 1"
   caption="Tentative schedule part 1." %}

{% include image.html 
   file="/images/courses/hsm-2.png"
   title="Figure 2"
   caption="Tentative schedule part 2." %}

{% include image.html 
   file="/images/courses/hsm-3.png"
   title="Figure 3"
   caption="Tentative schedule part 3." %}