---
cover: /images/courses/luc.png
code: CHEM 101
title: General Chemistry A (Lecture/Discussion)
instructor: Murat Kahveci
instructorurl: /murat
institution: Loyola University Chicago
insturl: "https://www.luc.edu/"
clevel: Undergraduate
semester: Spring 2022
pdf: 
web: "https://sakai.luc.edu/"
published: true
---
{% include courseh.html %}

## Course Description

General Chemistry A (CHM101) is the first course in a two-course sequence for general chemistry. This course surveys the universal concepts and principles underlying all of the disciplines of chemistry and describes how chemistry impacts our daily lives. The goals for this course are for you to understand conceptually how atoms combine to form molecules, how these molecules interact and react with each other, and how these reactions manifest in the real world. To accomplish these goals, we will develop problem-solving skills by utilizing simple mathematical equations as well as reading, interpreting, and comprehending graphs and tables to evaluate problems, make predications, and to draw conclusions. At the end of this course, you will be able to:

* Demonstrate a basic comprehension of basic general chemistry concepts utilizing the correct vernacular and terminology.
* Determine the number of molecules, mass, and moles using stoichiometry, chemical logic, and reasoning.
* Apply periodic trends to predict the physical properties of a given element.
* Determine the electronic structure of a given atom and/or molecules as well as discuss its impact on chemical bonding and reactivity.

## Textbook and Materials

### Textbook and Online Homework System

1. Chemistry The Central Science, Brown et. al., 14th edition. ISBN-13: 978- 0-13-441423-2; eText or hard copy. 
2. We will use Modified Mastering Chemistry as our online homework system. Both textbook and Mastering Chemistry are required.

### Other Materials/Resources

1. Computer and mobile device (phone, tablet) for connectivity to online resources, including using of a camera or connected webcam (Especially until January 21, 2022).
2. Accommodation requests must be discussed with Instructor at least one week before a test.
3. Scientific Calculator
4. Loyola Sakai course management site: [https://sakai.luc.edu/portal](https://sakai.luc.edu/portal) and tools integrated into the site (e.g. Panopto, Zoom Pro, Tests & Quizzes).
5. Loyola email. Messages are sent to the entire class via Sakai, linked to your Loyola email account.
6. Zoom conferencing. Meeting information is posted on Sakai Zoom Pro (must be authenticated).
7. Additional web-based systems will be used for uploading your work and facilitating feedback and evaluation. Registration will be free but required. These may include GradeScope, Flipgrid, and other sites.
8. Additional software will be used. Downloads will be free but required. These may include applications that convert photos to pdfs (examples: CamScanner, Scannable, GeniusScan), collaboration materials for group work (examples: JamBoard, OneNote), testing-related software approved by the University (example: Respondus Browser), and others.

### Zoom Guidelines and Expectations

This class will use Zoom for office hours. Students should follow general guidelines and meet participation expectations for Zoom meetings:

* Use your given or preferred name as your display name.
* Don’t use distracting or inappropriate profile photos or virtual backgrounds.
* Minimize distractions, such as televisions and cell phones, when possible.
* Try to put your device at eye level on a solid surface. Holding your device or placing it in your lap can
add movement to your video, which can be distracting.
* Don’t engage in other activities during sessions (driving, cooking, cleaning, etc.)
* Mute your microphone when you’re not speaking to minimize background noise.
* Don’t share meeting links, passwords, screenshots, recordings, or other meeting information. with
people outside the class.
* If connectivity issues impact your audio/video quality, try turning off your camera.
* Be on time or notify your instructor if you will be late or unable to attend.
* If you think you might have trouble actively participating in meetings, let your instructor know in
advance, if possible.
* Contact Loyola’s Technology Support Center at (773) 508-4487 or via email at ITS Service Desk
[ITSServiceDesk@luc.edu](mailto:ITSServiceDesk@luc.edu), if you need assistance during a video call.

## Tentative Schedule 

{% include image.html 
   file="/images/courses/yjq-1.png"
   title="Figure 1"
   caption="Tentative schedule part 1." %}

{% include image.html 
   file="/images/courses/yjq-2.png"
   title="Figure 2"
   caption="Tentative schedule part 2." %}