---
layout: post
author: Murat Kahveci
title: Installing a Learning Object to the D2L Environment
avatar: 
excerpt: This tutorial demonstrates how to import and use a learning object prepared in SCORM 1.2 standards.
lightbox: true
tags: 
  - Online Teaching
modify_date: 2020-08-13
---

This tutorial is for the [D2L](https://d2l.depaul.edu/d2l/home) environment demonstrates how to import and use a `learning object` prepared in the `SCORM 1.2 standards`. You may read more about what is a SCORM [here](https://scorm.com/scorm-explained/?utm_source=google&utm_medium=natural_search).

## 1 Importing the package

`SCORM 1.2 packages` are shipped with .ZIP extension. Log in to your `D2L course` and follow these steps to import a new SCORM package.

### 1.1 Download the demo package

<a class="button button--success button--rounded button--lg" href="/scorm-packages/test-package.zip"><i class="fas fa-download"></i> Download the demo SCORM package</a>

* Remarks:  
  - Flash based simulations will not be used.
  - HTML5 based simulations will be preferred.
      - They should be compatible with all modern devices including tablets and phones.

### 1.2 Upload to D2L

* Navigate to `Course Administration` > `Import / Export / Copy Components` > `Import Components` and click `Copy All Components`
* Select SCORM package from your desktop. In this demonstration, the file name is `test-package.zip`. See Figure 1.

{% include image.html 
   file="/images/blog/lcz/1.jpg"
   title="Figure 1"
   caption="Import screen: File selection." %}

* Click `Import All Components`. Figure 2 shows the normal progress. 
  - Remarks:
    - D2L supports file sizes up to 1 GB.
    - This demo uses a file with 283 KB. Very practical! 

{% include image.html 
   file="/images/blog/lcz/2.jpg" alt="1"
   title="Figure 2"
   caption="Import screen: Processing." %}

### 1.3 Viewing the SCORM content      

* Click `View Content` to access the `Content` tab.
  - Figure 3 shows that a new menu item is added to the Table of Contents.
  - When the menu item is clicked, the content appears in the main block with a `SCORM object` sign.

{% include image.html 
   file="/images/blog/lcz/3.jpg" alt="1"
   title="Figure 3"
   caption="SCORM content appears in the Table of Contents" %}

## 2 Accessing the content

- Click the link title `General Chemistry Lab I ▹ Interactive`
- Figures 4 - 8 shows the D2L snapshots of various views in D2L

    {% include image.html 
   file="/images/blog/lcz/6.jpg" alt="1"
   title="Figure 4"
   caption="Text based content." %} 

    {% include image.html 
   file="/images/blog/lcz/7.jpg" alt="1"
   title="Figure 5"
   caption="Simulation." %}  

    {% include image.html 
   file="/images/blog/lcz/8.jpg" alt="1"
   title="Figure 6"
   caption="Fill in the blank type activity. Feedback is immediate for learning. Not graded." %}  

    {% include image.html 
   file="/images/blog/lcz/9.jpg" alt="1"
   title="Figure 7"
   caption="SCORM quiz. Graded, no feedback. Testing the knowledge gain." %} 

   {% include image.html 
   file="/images/blog/lcz/10.jpg" alt="1"
   title="Figure 8"
   caption="Upon SCORM quiz completion, a item is created in the `Grades` module." %}

## 3 Benefits

- All of the content is free for students.
- Easy to set up an experiment in D2L.
  - All logical sequences with content and activities will be followed by all sections.
  - Any content type like `.pdf`, `.docx`, `.xlsx` can be embedded.
- Content can be updated as needed.

## 4 Limitations

- Videos are hosted by [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com).
  - Panopto sometimes imposes strict share limitations.
  - Copying movies from one course to another often produces broken links.
- We don't make new simulations so we cannot change them. 
  - This particular demo uses a simulation from [PhET Interactive Simulations](https://phet.colorado.edu)

  - I have been following PhET Interactive Simulations since it has started and [ACS](https://www.acs.org/content/acs/en/education/students/highschool/chemistryclubs/activities/simulations.html) lists PhET Interactive Simulations in the first place of their list (see Figure 9).

{% include image.html 
   file="/images/blog/lcz/5.jpg" alt="1"
   title="Figure 9"
   caption="ACS lists PhET Interactive Simulations in the first place of their list." %}   

