---
layout: post
title:  "Request for Letter of Recommendation"
author: Murat Kahveci
modify_date: 2022-06-28
tags:
  - My Students
---
Excellent students who have worked in my research group and who have received a high grade in my classes will be able to ask for recommendation letters for graduate school, medical school, or other future employers.

Important note that it is to your advantage to ask for recommendation letters from faculty who know you well outside of the classroom. If you were a student in my class and not a member of my research group, it is usually more appropriate to ask another faculty for a recommendation letter. That way, they can state specific information about your qualifications and experiences that is not already presented on your transcript.

Please follow these specific guidelines:
  
* Email me as soon as possible to ask for a recommendation letter and to schedule a meeting to discuss your future career plans.
* It is my policy to only write letters for students who waive their rights to read the letters of recommendation.
* Submit your materials in person at least 1 month before the due date. The earlier you can give me your application materials, the more time I will have to work on your recommendation letters.
  1. A short typed paragraph on our previous interactions at Loyola University Chicago.
(e.g., in which of my classes you were in and your grade in each class, what quarters you were involved in my research group and what specific work you did, etc.)
  2. Any necessary forms from each graduate school (with as much information filled out on the form as possible).
  3. Addressed and stamped envelopes for each application. Please be sure to include the return address as well:

>Murat Kahveci<br>
Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry<br> 
Loyola University Chicago<br>
1068 W Sheridan Rd, Chicago, IL 60660

  4. A copy of your vita or resume.
  5. A copy of your personal statement.
  6. A document containing your GPA, Chemistry GPA, GRE score, previous research experience, specific future career plans, specific research interests you hope to pursue in graduate school or medical school, and any other relevant information about you and your academic accomplishments.
  7. Please send me an email (in addition to a printed out a list) with a PDF Document that contains all of the addresses, specific graduate or medical schools, and the due dates for each application.
* After the application process is finished, please email me and let me know what graduate programs or medical schools you have been accepted to and which program you have selected.
* Keep in touch and let me know how much fun you’re having in graduate or medical school.